html.md, before:

This is the HTML section of the front-end development standards

### Make your HTML semantic

Markup your content in a semantic way to allow search engines and screen readers to better understand the nature of the content.  Rather than using elements like `<div>` and `<span>` which don't have any meaning make use of HTML5's semantic elements.  Below is an example of what a webpage might have looked like pre HTML5 where id's are being used to state what each element contains.

```html
<div id="header">
	<!-- Header content -->
</div>
<div id="nav">
	<!-- Primary navigation -->
</div>
<div id="main-content">
	<div class="article">
		<h1>Learn about tigers</h1>
		<span>Posted on: 01/01/2016 </span>
		<p>This is the content of the article about tigers</p>
		<p>History</p>
		<p>Some text detailing the history of tigers</p>
	</div>
</div>
<div id="sidebar">
	<h4>Also in this section</h4>
	<a href="https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=tiger" title="Search Google for tigers">Tigers</a>
	<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bengal_tiger" title="Visit Wikipedia to find out more about the Bengal tiger">Bengal tiger</a>
	<a href="http://www.savetigersnow.org/" title="Find out how to save tigers from extinction">Save tigers now</a>
</div>
<div id="footer">
	<!-- Footer content -->
</div>
```

Below is the same page but the HTML has now been written in a semantic way.  Both users and search engines can now understand what each element contains.


```html
<header>
	<!-- Header content -->
</header>
<nav class="primary">
	<!-- Primary navigation -->
</nav>
<main>
	<article>
		<h1>Learn about tigers</h1>
		<span>Posted on: <time>01/01/2016</time></span>
		<p>This is the content of the article about tigers</p>
		<h2>History</h2>
		<p>Some text detailing the history of tigers</p>
	</article>
</main>
<aside id="sidebar">
	<h4>Also in this section</h4>
	<nav class="secondary">
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=tiger" title="Search Google for tigers">Tigers</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bengal_tiger" title="Visit Wikipedia to find out more about the Bengal tiger">Bengal tiger</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://www.savetigersnow.org/" title="Find out how to save tigers from extinction">Save tigers now</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
	</nav>
</aside>
<footer>
	<!-- Footer content -->
</footer>
```

### Use the correct doctype declaration

````html
<!DOCTYPE html>
````

### Use HTML5 input types

Filling out a form can be harder on mobile devices but using the correct input type can make this easier for the user.  HTML5 introduced the following new input types.  

- time
- date
- datetime
- datetime-local
- week
- month
- email
- tel
- color
- number
- range
- search
- tel
- url

If you have an input where you are expecting a date to be entered then set the input type to date because this should bring up the device's native datepicker.  

````html
<input type="date" name="arrival-date" placeholder="01/01/2016" />
````

![iOS date input](images/ios-date-input.jpg "iOS keyboard when using date input")

Using the datepicker is easier for the user than having to navigate to the numbers and symbols section of their keyboard.  

Similarly if you have a field that requires a number to be entered use the number input type.  On iOS this automatically brings up the numbers section of the keyboard.  

````html
<input type="number" name="age-years" placeholder="Enter your age" />
````

![iOS number input](images/ios-date-input.jpg "iOS keyboard when using number input")

### Don't add too many comments to your HTML

Your HTML should be semantic and easy to read so its normally unnecessary to add comments.  If you need to add comments to explain anything you've probably done something wrong.  

### Always add titles to links

For accessibility anchor tags should always have a title attributes that provide more detail about where the link is taking you.  Don't just repeat the anchor text so rather than doing

````html
<a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk" title="BBC">BBC</a>
````

Do the following.

````html
<a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk" title="Go to the BBC website">BBC</a>
````

### Always use alt attributes on images

To enable screen readers and search engine to more easily understand what your images contain use the alt attribute.  

````html
<img src="tiger.jpg" alt="Bengal tiger hunting in long grass" />
````

### Avoid inline CSS and JavaScript

````html
<a style="color: #333333; text-decoration: underline" onclick="openMap()">Contact us</a>
````

Inline styles make your HTML messy and harder to maintain.  

### Validate your HTML

If you're experiencing bugs or cross browers problems then validating your HTML is a good debugging tool.  You're less likely to get bugs in valid well formed documents.

Validating your HTML does require extra effort but its a good indication of quality and that you care about your craft.  

The W3C site has a [HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/)

Commit message:

Adding tip about prefix ID's and classes used by JS

html.md, after:

This is the HTML section of the front-end development standards

### Make your HTML semantic

Markup your content in a semantic way to allow search engines and screen readers to better understand the nature of the content.  Rather than using elements like `<div>` and `<span>` which don't have any meaning make use of HTML5's semantic elements.  Below is an example of what a webpage might have looked like pre HTML5 where id's are being used to state what each element contains.

```html
<div id="header">
	<!-- Header content -->
</div>
<div id="nav">
	<!-- Primary navigation -->
</div>
<div id="main-content">
	<div class="article">
		<h1>Learn about tigers</h1>
		<span>Posted on: 01/01/2016 </span>
		<p>This is the content of the article about tigers</p>
		<p>History</p>
		<p>Some text detailing the history of tigers</p>
	</div>
</div>
<div id="sidebar">
	<h4>Also in this section</h4>
	<a href="https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=tiger" title="Search Google for tigers">Tigers</a>
	<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bengal_tiger" title="Visit Wikipedia to find out more about the Bengal tiger">Bengal tiger</a>
	<a href="http://www.savetigersnow.org/" title="Find out how to save tigers from extinction">Save tigers now</a>
</div>
<div id="footer">
	<!-- Footer content -->
</div>
```

Below is the same page but the HTML has now been written in a semantic way.  Both users and search engines can now understand what each element contains.


```html
<header>
	<!-- Header content -->
</header>
<nav class="primary">
	<!-- Primary navigation -->
</nav>
<main>
	<article>
		<h1>Learn about tigers</h1>
		<span>Posted on: <time>01/01/2016</time></span>
		<p>This is the content of the article about tigers</p>
		<h2>History</h2>
		<p>Some text detailing the history of tigers</p>
	</article>
</main>
<aside id="sidebar">
	<h4>Also in this section</h4>
	<nav class="secondary">
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=tiger" title="Search Google for tigers">Tigers</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bengal_tiger" title="Visit Wikipedia to find out more about the Bengal tiger">Bengal tiger</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="http://www.savetigersnow.org/" title="Find out how to save tigers from extinction">Save tigers now</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
	</nav>
</aside>
<footer>
	<!-- Footer content -->
</footer>
```

### Use the correct doctype declaration

````html
<!DOCTYPE html>
````

### Use HTML5 input types

Filling out a form can be harder on mobile devices but using the correct input type can make this easier for the user.  HTML5 introduced the following new input types.  

- time
- date
- datetime
- datetime-local
- week
- month
- email
- tel
- color
- number
- range
- search
- tel
- url

If you have an input where you are expecting a date to be entered then set the input type to date because this should bring up the device's native datepicker.  

````html
<input type="date" name="arrival-date" placeholder="01/01/2016" />
````

![iOS date input](images/ios-date-input.jpg "iOS keyboard when using date input")

Using the datepicker is easier for the user than having to navigate to the numbers and symbols section of their keyboard.  

Similarly if you have a field that requires a number to be entered use the number input type.  On iOS this automatically brings up the numbers section of the keyboard.  

````html
<input type="number" name="age-years" placeholder="Enter your age" />
````

![iOS number input](images/ios-date-input.jpg "iOS keyboard when using number input")

### Don't add too many comments to your HTML

Your HTML should be semantic and easy to read so its normally unnecessary to add comments.  If you need to add comments to explain anything you've probably done something wrong.  

### Always add titles to links

For accessibility anchor tags should always have a title attributes that provide more detail about where the link is taking you.  Don't just repeat the anchor text so rather than doing

````html
<a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk" title="BBC">BBC</a>
````

Do the following.

````html
<a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk" title="Go to the BBC website">BBC</a>
````

### Always use alt attributes on images

To enable screen readers and search engine to more easily understand what your images contain use the alt attribute.  

````html
<img src="tiger.jpg" alt="Bengal tiger hunting in long grass" />
````

### Avoid inline CSS and JavaScript

````html
<a style="color: #333333; text-decoration: underline" onclick="openMap()">Contact us</a>
````

Inline styles make your HTML messy and harder to maintain.  

### Prefix any ID's or classes used by your JavaScript

To make it clear that an ID or a class is being used by as a selector by your JavaScript you can prefix it with "js-".  At a later date if you or someone else is looking through your code it makes it more readable.  

````html
<a class="js-open-map" title="Find out where we are located and how to contact us">Contact us</a>
````

### Validate your HTML

If you're experiencing bugs or cross browers problems then validating your HTML is a good debugging tool.  You're less likely to get bugs in valid well formed documents.

Validating your HTML does require extra effort but its a good indication of quality and that you care about your craft.  

The W3C site has a [HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
